# Samuel Parente - Full Stack Developer

- **Nationality:** Portuguese
- **Date of Birth:** 01/02/1986
- **Email Address:** samuel.parente@gmail.com
- **GitHub:** [samuelparente](https://github.com/samuelparente)
- **LinkedIn:** [Samuel Parente](https://www.linkedin.com/in/samuel-parente-cbt/)

## Professional Summary

Hi, I'm Samuel Parente, an aspiring Full Stack Developer living in Celorico de Basto, Portugal. Currently studying Computer Science and Engineering at Universidade Aberta. Experienced in web development with a strong background in creating efficient, scalable, and user-friendly applications. Proficient in a variety of programming languages including C, C#, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, TypeScript, PHP, Python, and Assembly. Skilled in frameworks/libraries such as Bootstrap, NodeJS, react, laravel and .NET. Experienced in databases including SQL, SQL Server, MySQL, SQLite, MongoDB, and PostgreSQL. Currently expanding skills in C++, Java, Ruby, jQuery, Django, and Angular. Demonstrated success in managing e-commerce platforms, developing automation tools, and implementing digital marketing strategies. Proven ability to collaborate with cross-functional teams to deliver high-quality software solutions.

## Latest Work Experience

### E-commerce Manager & Full Stack Developer
- **Company:** Farmácia Central de Amarante
- **Dates:** 01/07/2022 – Current
- **City:** Amarante, Portugal

- **Description:**
Development of necessary tools that made it possible to improve the efficiency of internal processes, including:

• Development in RPA (UIpath) of the order printing process. The process of printing orders was manual
(around 100 PDFs daily, in the morning) which consumed a lot of time. In this way, around 2 hours a day
were saved, freeing the employee for other tasks.

• Development with HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, SQL Server and BOOTSTRAP, of a web platform for
managing prices, campaigns and promotions, viewing warehouse stock and researching competitor
prices. Integrated with ERP SAGE and the existing online store platform. Sales prices were changed
manually one by one (more than 4000 products). This project allowed the time to enter sales prices to be
reduced by 90%.

• Development with HTML, CSS, JAVASCRIPT, PHP, BOOTSTRAP and REST, of a web platform for
managing orders generated by KuantoKusta with integration via API. It also allows you to create
shipping labels with just one click (the process was manual, with customer data having to be entered
manually for each order). This improvement made it possible to immensely reduce the process time for
sending an order.

• Development in C# and SQL Server of an application for purchasing management. With SAGE ERP
integration, a PDF is sent to management's email every day with the stock below 10 units, with sales in the
last 30 days, profit margin per sale and quantity sold in the 30 days. This application helped to reduce
unnecessary stocks and make more accurate purchases from suppliers, reducing operating costs.

• Development in C# and SQL Server of an application that manages product expiration dates.
Integrated with ERP SAGE, whenever there are products with a term equal to or less than 6 months, this
report in PDF is sent to management's email. It was possible to reduce the waste of products at the end of
their expiration date and avoid errors in sending products after their expiration date.

• Development in C# of an application to integrate the stock of pharmacy products (Sifarma) into the
online store stock (ERP SAGE). This process was carried out manually twice a day (only from Monday to Friday), which resulted in many stock errors and lost sales as they sold products that, when checking the
order, no longer existed and the order was cancelled, which caused inconvenience to customers. These
errors were practically reduced by 100% as stock updates are carried out every 10 minutes.

Digital marketing management (Google Ads, social networks and email marketing).

## Education and Training

### Graduate Student in Computer Science and Engineering
- **Institution:** Universidade Aberta
- **Dates:** 28/02/2022 – Current
- **Country:** Portugal

### Technological Course of Electrotechnics Technician / Electronics - 12th year level III
- **Institution:** Colégio de Gaia
- **Dates:** 14/09/2001 – 14/06/2005
- **Country:** Portugal
- **Field(s) of Study:** Electronics and Electricity

## Skills

- **Languages:** Portuguese (native), English (professional)
- **Programming Languages:**
  - C, C#, HTML, CSS, JavaScript, TypeScript, PHP, Python, Assembly
- **Frameworks/Libraries:**
  - Bootstrap, NodeJS, React, Laravel, .NET
- **Databases:**
  - SQL, SQL Server, MySQL, SQLite, MongoDB, PostgreSQL
- **Currently Learning:**
  - C++, Java, Ruby, jQuery, Django, Angular

## Certifications

- **Languages and Technologies from:**
  - **Universidade Aberta**
    - C
    - HTML
    - CSS
    - Javascript
    - PHP
  - **Colégio de Gaia**
    - C
    - Assembly
  - **w3schools.com**
    - C#
    - Python
    - Postgresql
    - SQLite
    - MongoDB
    - SQL Server
    - MySQL
    - TypeScript
    - Node.js
    - Bootstrap
  - **Fundação Bradesco**
    - C#
    - HTML
    - CSS
    - SQL
    - Power BI
    - Javascript
    - Python
  - **pirple.com**
    - HTML
    - CSS
  - **udemy.com**
    - LARAVEL

- **Training in Digital Marketing**
  - **Program:** Atelier Digital from Google
